{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 June 07--
\f1\b TWIN
\f0\b0  
\f1\b FALLS
\f0\b0  -- The cascading water of 
\f1\b Twin
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Falls
\f0\b0  doesn't enthrall spectators in quite the same way as Shoshone 
\f1\b Falls
\f0\b0 . But its hydroelectric plant has a greater capacity to generate power to Magic Valley homes than its famous counterpart.\
Two turbines combined can generate 54 megawatts of power, said Area Leader Ryan Merrick. That's more than four times what Shoshone 
\f1\b Falls
\f0\b0  can produce -- simply because 
\f1\b Twin
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Falls
\f0\b0 ' equipment is newer.\
"Shoshone 
\f1\b Falls
\f0\b0  has three units, two of which are so old that they've been decommissioned and they're falling apart," Merrick said.\
The 
\f1\b Twin
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Falls
\f0\b0  Power Plant was built by Idaho Power Co. in 1935. The original unit has a capacity of about nine megawatts. In 1995, the company added another turbine and plant that could generate 45 megawatts, Merrick said.\
And it's because of those plants that you can no longer see the "
\f1\b twin
\f0\b0 " of 
\f1\b Twin
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Falls
\f0\b0 . The waterfall once had a second 
\f1\b fall
\f0\b0  alongside it and a third in extra high water years. But Idaho Power constructed a dam along the top, and the company essentially pipes that second waterfall through steel and concrete to either of two turbines.\
Merrick suspects that Idaho Power could still do a dam project like that today if they needed to, but it would take a longer time to get all the permits and permissions.\
Idaho Power is required to maintain scenic flows at 
\f1\b Twin
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Falls
\f0\b0  of at least 300 cubic-feet-per-second between April 1 and Labor Day weekend. This requirement -- combined with decreasing flows during irrigation season -- means the 
\f1\b Twin
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Falls
\f0\b0  power plant is operational only part of the year.\
"This plant will be shut down and quiet for most of the summer," Area Supervisor Stanley Bell said during a May 17 tour of 
\f1\b Twin
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Falls
\f0\b0  plant.\
In recent years, improvements in irrigation have resulted in less runoff returning to the river. Snowpack and temperatures also affect water flows.\
The older generator can run when there are at least 150 cfs flowing, up to 940 cfs. The larger generator will go online if flows are 1,000 to 4,000 cfs.\
"Anything over 4,000 cfs, we run over both units," Merrick said.\
And over 5,000 cfs, the company has to spill water from the dam. In late May, the 
\f1\b falls
\f0\b0  were flowing at nearly 7,000 cfs. That was unusually high even for spring, Merrick said, but there was still high carryover from the "snowpocalypse" of 2017.\
"Historically, we only run about 300 cfs," he said -- just enough to maintain scenic flows and at times run the generators.\
At any given time, a device called "the governor" can regulate water flows to control the speed of the generator, Merrick said -- similar to cruise control on your car. Once a year, water is entirely pumped out of the plants so Idaho Power can check on the generators and turbines for abnormalities.\
Technology has changed operations at 
\f1\b Twin
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Falls
\f0\b0  Power Plant. Whereas Idaho Power once required employees to live at housing on-site, they now come in four days a week. Automation installed in the mid-1990s allows for remote control.\
"Somebody is here to at least look at things most days," Merrick said.\
The rest of the time, Idaho Power employees in Boise are supervising the plant's operations from afar.\
More automation is coming soon, Merrick said. This summer, the company will replace those manual flips and switches with touchscreen panels.\
}