{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
A breeze stirred the air as the wind turbine's blades began to gyrate slowly. But the 4- to 5-mile-per-hour winds, detected by the turbine's sensors, were not quite enough to begin generating power.\
Here at Idaho Wind Partners' Yahoo Creek project, 14 wind turbines can generate 21 megawatts of 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0 . It's one of more than half a dozen wind farms that litter the hilltops between 
\f1\b Twin
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Falls
\f0\b0  and Elmore counties.\
Idaho Wind Partners owns a total of 11 projects in south-central Idaho, with 122 turbines -- each generating 1 1/2 megawatts. Transformers at the base of each turbine send the 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  to transmission lines or a substation so it can be dispersed into the main grid.\
"We have long-term power purchase agreements with Idaho Power," said Kara Gunn, commercial asset manager with MIC 
\f1\b Renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Holdings, Idaho Wind Partners' major shareholder.\
In accordance with those agreements, Idaho Power Co. pays a set price for 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  that's generated. That revenue is split between Idaho Wind Partners and the landowners that lease property to the company.\
"In lieu of property tax, Idaho Wind 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  producers pay a 3 percent gross earnings tax," Gunn said.\
Idaho Wind Partners has 20 agreements with landowners for all of its projects, she said. Many of those landowners also raise cattle or sheep on the same land.\
"Our landowner agreement doesn't restrict what kind of livestock they can have," Gunn said.\
The animals don't cause problems, for the most part. But what has been an issue are the birds that live around the company's wind projects near the Milner Butte Landfill.\
"There's a high concentration of ravens in that area," she said.\
The birds nest on power poles and can damage transmission lines.\
Idaho is an attractive state for wind 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0 , but similar to solar power, it's hard to predict when that 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  will be online. Idaho Wind Partners has had wind projects in the state since 2010. Historically, the windiest months are March through May, while July and August have the lowest wind generation, Gunn said.\
"Pretty much, January through April have been over budget consistently," she said.\
There is a cap on how much Idaho Power will buy from the wind farms, but Gunn said the project doesn't typically exceed that cap.\
But for the last quarter, that wasn't the case. High output pushed the projects over the cap for two of the past for months, she said.\
Each wind turbine stands 262 feet to the nacelle -- the boxy section in the back of the turbine -- with 130-foot blades connected at the top. Sensors detect wind at 4- to 5- miles per hour and rotate the blades to catch the breeze. Generation can begin after wind speeds reach 6 miles per hour, Gunn said.\
And the Bell Rapids area near Hagerman -- with wide open, high places surrounded by agriculture -- is ideal for wind projects.\
}