{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Magic Valley residents who want to learn more about a variety of 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  issues -- such as solar electric and wind power systems -- will have a chance Aug. 1-2 at the 
\f1\b Twin
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Falls
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Fair on the College of Southern Idaho campus, the Idaho 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Division announced Monday. \
People who make, sell and install 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  products and services will have products on hand to look at, ask questions about and purchase. On Aug. 1, fair officials scheduled a series of free classes that highlight a range of 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  topics including hands-on solar system installation, anaerobic digestion, geothermal heat systems, small and large-scale wind power systems and 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  efficiency issues. \
The two-day fair, free to the public, will be held in and around the Evergreen Building on the CSI campus. The fair will be open 10 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. Aug. 1, and 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Aug. 2. \
Opening ceremonies are set for 9:30 a.m. Aug. 1. \
"The fair is a wonderful chance for folks to see these systems first hand and to ask questions about things like biofuels, solar electric and wind systems. If you've ever wondered if a 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  system is right for you, this is the time to find out," Gerry Galinato, of the Idaho 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Division, said in a statement. \
Idaho 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Division loan specialists will be on hand both days to assist people interested in 4 percent loans to pay for 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  projects. \
Up to 100 diesel vehicle owners will get to try five gallons of free B20 biodiesel fuel provided by BriCo of Idaho. \
BriCo is the B20 biofuels supplier in the Magic Valley, working in a partnership with the Idaho 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Division. A Trans IV bus which runs on B20 biodiesel will be on display at the fair. Trans IV operates more than 30 of its vehicles on B20 as part of the B20 Magic Valley program, the 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Division's statement said. \
The Idaho Mustard Bug, a Volkswagen Beetle that runs on 100 percent Idaho-grown mustard seed oil, will be on display. Magic Valley Honda and Toyota dealers will also display hybrid vehicle sedans that combine gasoline and electric power to get up to 50 miles to the gallon, the 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Division said. \
The 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Division, CSI, the U.S. Department of 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  and BriCo of Idaho are sponsoring the 
\f1\b Renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Fair. \
\
}