{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Jul. 31--The U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee recently approved funding for two projects in the Magic Valley, according to U.S. Sen. Mike Crapo's office.\
The projects are part of the annual funding for the departments of education, health and human services, and labor. They must still be approved by the Senate and a conference committee with the U.S. House.\
Among the 11 projects that received funding were Cassia Regional Medical Center facility improvements and equipment in Burley at $100,000, and $100,000 for College of Southern 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  for its new 
\f1\b Renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Technician Apprenticeship Training Program in Twin Falls.\
"We have made important strides to improve health services and expand educational opportunities in 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0 , but there is more to do," Crapo said in a statement. "I am proud to have participated in the expansion of telemedicine, which improves diagnosis for patients in rural 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0 , and to have recently seen firsthand the expansion of health education in Lewiston and 
\f1\b Nampa
\f0\b0 ."\
"There is a great need for up-to-date health services, particularly in our rural communities," said U.S. Sen. Jim Risch. "This funding will help many local hospitals upgrade their facilities. These funds also provide much-needed support for our medical education programs. We must invest in these training programs to meet the demands of a rapidly growing senior population."\
}