{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Hoping to acquire a heavy-duty sport utility vehicle for your business? \'a0 Better hurry. \
The current tax code allows for businesses to deduct $25,000 on the purchase of a new vehicle weighing more than 6,000 pounds. The incentive was originally intended to help businesses purchase heavy-duty vehicles for industrial and farm use, but the exemption also applies to any luxury SUV that meets the weight requirement. \
That loophole may close soon. The 
\f1\b Renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  and 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Conservation Tax Act of 2007, currently before the United States House of Representatives, would remove the tax incentive for businesses to buy the biggest vehicle available. It is uncertain if the House will vote on the 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  bill before breaking for the summer recess, which begins Aug. 6. Proposed by Rep. Earl Blumenauer, D-Ore., the so-called Hummer tax loophole would not affect purchases of trucks or vans, including construction vehicles, flatbed trucks and farm vehicles. \'93With sky-high gas prices and a rapidly warming planet, closing the Hummer Tax Loophole eliminates the perverse incentive for businesses to buy the biggest vehicles on the market, which is neither good for the earth nor smart for our pocketbooks,\'94 Blumenauer said in a statement. But Hummer dealers say that closing the loophole would destroy their business. Ron Bovee, Hummer sales manager at the Edmark Superstore in 
\f1\b Nampa
\f0\b0 , said he sells a lot of vehicles based on the tax rebate \'96 about 75 percent of H2 sales and 25 percent of the smaller H3. \'a0 \'93We encourage people to write it off,\'94 he said. \'93A considerable chunk of [our] customers are business people. They want all the write-offs they possibly can. It would be disastrous if they pulled it back.\'94 \'a0 Although the tax break is commonly referred to as the Hummer Loophole, Bovee said it\'92s an unfair stereotype. \'93The Chevy Tahoe and GMC Yukon all would qualify as long as the business is making the purchase,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s posted all over the Internet as the Hummer loophole. It\'92s a stereotype of the vehicle. It\'92s just nicknamed that because it\'92s what people see.\'94\
}