{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Energy
\f1\b0  industry professionals from all over the nation and beyond gathered March 23 and 24 in downtown Boise to talk about 
\f0\b renewable
\f1\b0  
\f0\b energy
\f1\b0 . Power Engineers Inc. - which was founded in Hailey and now has offices in 23 U.S. cities, including its largest office in 
\f0\b Meridian
\f1\b0  - hosted the conference, called the 
\f0\b Renewables
\f1\b0  Rendezvous, at the Grove Hotel. Power brought in speakers with experience in all issues involved in 
\f0\b renewable
\f1\b0  
\f0\b energy
\f1\b0 : resources, permitting, engineering and more. Barbara Laflin One such invited speaker was Barbara Laflin Treat of San Francisco-based InfrastructureWorld, which invests and consults in infrastructure project development. She outlined the Seven Deadly Sins of 
\f0\b renewable
\f1\b0  project development: -Lust: It's important to be careful in forming partnerships, Treat said. Examine the potential partner's decision-making style to decide if it's a good fit, and think critically about at what level you want the partner to be involved. -Gluttony: Bigger is not always better. These days, deals are requiring 40 to 50 percent equity in a project, and those funds aren't necessarily going to be there. -Greed: Don't count on subsidies. Treat referenced a situation in Spain where subsidies for 
\f0\b energy
\f1\b0  projects were once plentiful, encouraging bad projects that couldn't survive when the subsidies went away. "Don't think that just because they're in place they're sustainable, and don't base your project on them," she said. -Laziness: The mantra for developers should be "Plan, plan, plan," Treat said. Think ahead to any obstacle that could come up and be prepared to respond to it. Get insurance to mitigate risk. -Wrath: "Never, ever assume you don't have enemies," she said. "New solutions always step on the toes of entrenched industry players, often with very powerful political constituencies." Enemies can arise from competitors, environmental groups, neighbors and more. -Envy: The newest thing that everyone is talking about may not be the best thing. Develop investment criteria and stick with it. -Pride: Don't have the hubris, she said, to think you'll be successful in introducing new technology where others have not. Understand the risks involved, and think through potential consequences of using untested technologies. Avoiding these sins can help turn 
\f0\b renewable
\f1\b0  resources into infrastructure, Treat said. "There are lots of projects on the books," she said, "but a lot of them aren't happening. If you've got a good project, and you know how to put it together, and you know how to make the whole thing work, it can happen." }