{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
After years of stagnant growth, wind power development is picking up in 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  \'96 particularly along a 150-mile corridor from the Glenns Ferry area to American Falls. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Idaho
\f0\b0  Power in recent months signed a power purchase agreement with three small wind farms planned west of Hagerman by Boise-based Exergy Development Group, and the utilities commission is currently accepting comments on another 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Power purchase agreement for a wind project proposed northwest of Glenns Ferry by 
\f1\b Meridian
\f0\b0 -based 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Winds. \
In addition to those projects, 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Wind 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  has partnered with South Dakota-based Quin Wind on a wind farm south of Hagerman, and Boise-based Windland 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  has partnered with Houston-based Shell Wind 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  on large projects at Cotterel Mountain, southeast of Burley, and outside American Falls in Power County.\
Gene Fadness, a spokesman for the 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Public Utilities Commission, attributed part of the upswing in wind projects to regulatory changes that have made it less risky for utilities to buy power from small 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  generators. \
\'93We\'92ve seen them pick up again after a near-three year period in which the size of projects that could qualify for the PURPA rate was lowered from 10 megawatts to 100 kilowatts,\'94 Fadness said, referring to the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act \'96 a federal rule that requires regulated utilities to buy power from qualifying 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  generators at the rate it would cost them to generate the power themselves or purchase from another source. \
While PURPA projects can have a generating capacity higher than 10MW, they can\'92t sell more than 10MW at the PURPA rate. Rule changes gave small projects more wiggle room by eliminating a penalty assessed to wind generators who produce less than 90 percent of the 10MW limit or produce more than 110 percent of their projected output. \
As part of the changes, the PUC also agreed to decrease the rate wind developers are paid to reflect the cost utilities bear in bringing that 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  onto their systems, and now requires wind developers to provide mechanical guarantees and pay a portion of the expense of wind forecasting. \'a0\
\'93From our end of it, we think a big difference has been the resolution of all these issues related to intermittency,\'94 Fadness said.\

\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Winds President Rick Koebbe, whose $40 million 21MW Sawtooth Wind Project near Glenns Ferry signed a 20-year power purchase agreement with 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Power this fall, said the regulatory changes have definitely made wind projects more feasible, but he doesn\'92t expect it to last. \
\'93The power rate has increased to 7.1 cents a kilowatt hour, and it was 5.4 cents two years ago\'85 projects just aren\'92t feasible at 5.4 cents,\'94 he said, adding \'93it\'92s only a matter of time\'94 before rates go back down and projects feel the pinch again. \
\'93The last time power rates were high enough, like they are now, was 10 years ago,\'94 he said. \'93That\'92s why you\'92re seeing a few of these contracts being signed by 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Power.\'94 \
If all goes according to plan, Koebbe said construction could begin on the Sawtooth Wind Project as early as next summer, but there are still a few hurdles to overcome. \
\'93The whole financial crisis that occurred over the past year also impacted the wind industry, and we\'92re working on financing just like everybody else,\'94 he said. \
Combine that with transmission constraints, and developing wind in 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  \'93is not simple,\'94 he added. \
\'93The reason that we\'92re all down in that [south-central 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0 ] area is that there are transmission lines and there\'92s a little bit of transmission capacity left,\'94 he said. \'93Over in eastern 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  \'96 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Falls, Pocatello \'96 that\'92s where the real wind is, but you can\'92t build there because there\'92s not the transmission capacity over there.\
\'93You have this problem that ideally you want to place wind projects close to the load centers, but as you get closer to the load centers there\'92s always transmission constraints,\'94 he added. \
Further east, in the Hagerman area, a larger cluster of wind projects is developing, including the $40 million 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Wind 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0 -Quin Wind farm. Rob Thompson, of Quin Wind, said the project is \'93getting ready for construction right now,\'94 and is slated for completion in May 2010. \'a0\
While 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Wind 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  has yet to sign a power purchase agreement, three projects to the west of Hagerman have, and when completed in fall 2010 would bring a total of 64.5MW onto the grid. \
Being developed by Boise-based Exergy, the projects include the 22.5MW Camp Reed project, the 21MW Payne\'92s Ferry project and the 21MW Yahoo Creek project. \
But far larger than any developments planned by 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Winds, 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Wind 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  or Exergy would be Windland\'92s Cotterel Mountain Site southeast of Burley. \
Slated for 200MW on a 15-mile long mountain ridge, the project would cost between $300 million and $400 million to build, require 100 turbines and employ about 200 workers during construction.\
Mike Heckler, director of marketing and development for Windland, said because of the Cotterel Mountain project\'92s size it won\'92t be eligible for a PURPA contract, but the company filed with 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Power for a purchase agreement in May and is still awaiting a decision. \
\'93We haven\'92t had real good progress building projects in 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0 , but we hope that changes,\'94 Heckler said. The company has been in the wind business since 1982, where it built a total of 76MW in California before relocating to Boise. \
\'93The industry hasn\'92t been appreciated in the same way here \'96 this state has no 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  portfolio standard, for instance,\'94 he said. \'a0\

\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  does have a few incentives, including a sales tax exemption on 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  generating equipment. But lacking a 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  portfolio standard to mandate a certain amount of green 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  on the grid, utilities and developers haven\'92t seen much reason to pursue large-scale development. \
According to estimates from the 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Office of 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Resources, as of July 14, 2009 the state had about 148MW of operating projects \'96 nearly all less than 21MW, with the exception of the Wolverine Creek project in eastern 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0 , which has a capacity of 64.5MW.\'a0 Meanwhile, more than 1,400MW were in advanced planning. \
\'93It was a quality of life decision that caused the relocation,\'94 Heckler said. \'a0 \'a0 Permitting at the Cotterel Mountain Site has been completed, and it could be producing power by 2011. \
Windland\'92s other project, near American Falls, isn\'92t as far along but would also bring a substantial amount of wind power onto the grid. Slated for 100MW on 8,000 acres of private land, the Power County Site is expected to go before the county planning and zoning board in Feb. 2010. \
Heckler said both sites have excellent potential and would prove to be a major boon to the local economies. \
\'93Both Cotterel Mountain and our Power County Site are at the north end of the Deep Creek Mountain Range and both of those are areas where you\'92ve got a ridge exposed to the predominately western and southwestern direction wind flows,\'94 he said.\
\'93You get a very significant infusion of assessed value with these projects,\'94 he added. \'93We don\'92t require new kindergartens or more sheriffs\'92 deputies.\'94 \
Despite some of the challenges faced by wind development, the relative boom in projects is good news for small communities in south-central 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0 . With the College of Southern 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  in Twin Falls and 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  State University in Pocatello both offering training programs in wind technology, local officials are excited to see the growth of a new industry that could take advantage of regional talent. \'a0 \'93There\'92s defiantly been an upswing and I suspect we\'92ll see more of those types of projects in the future,\'94 said Micah Austin, assistant to the Jerome city administrator.\'a0 \'93This is an exciting time to live and work in Jerome city and Jerome County, especially because we have so many people looking at the area and interested in its potential for 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0 . It\'92ll generate the kind of jobs that we are starting to see more and more of here in the county.\'94 \
}