{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
A couple who wants to go into the business of installing small wind turbines is worried their company will lose customers because Ada County has no 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  ordinance that allows such structures.\
A 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  ordinance that was proposed a year ago is expected to come before the county's Board of Commissioners May 11. It would amend the county zoning ordinance to allow small wind and solar projects outside the Rural Preservation District, where they are now prohibited.\
Meanwhile, John and Mary Smith can't get permits for a small turbine they were hired to install south of 
\f1\b Meridian
\f0\b0  in an area outside the Rural Preservation District. The turbine is now lying on the site while the Smiths seek a permit. While the county is considering a 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  ordinance, it may not be enacted soon enough for the Smiths and for Ted Wheeler of Wheeler Farms, who hired the Smiths to put up the turbine.\
Mary Smith said Wheeler could lose $80,000 in grants and incentives if the turbine isn't running by midsummer, and the turbine might have to be sold.\
"And we may lose other Ada County customers who want to install small wind turbines," she said.\
The Smiths operate Treasure Valley Wind & Solar. They contacted Ada County in October about getting a permit and were told they could not get one because no ordinance allowed it. Then they called the governor's office and the 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Office of 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Resources, which suggested the Smiths explore obtaining a conditional-use permit.\
But the county does not allow conditional use permits for wind turbines outside the Rural Preservation District. A wind project developer in the Rural Preservation District must submit conditional-use permit and master site plan applications, Ada County spokeswoman Jessica Donald said. The Wheeler site, off Eagle Road south of Columbia Road, is outside the district.\
"You can go anywhere outside Ada County and you have no problem putting up a wind turbine," Mary Smith said. "I don't see the reason why the permit can't be given, at least a conditional-use, until they get an ordinance together, especially since they know we have financial deadlines."\
An Ada County ordinance allows wind turbines, considered power plants, only in the Rural Preservation District that lies mainly in outlying and peripheral areas but some areas in the foothills just north of Boise, Donald said.\
A goal of the Rural Preservation District is to protect agricultural, rangeland and wildlife areas from adjacent development while permitting public gathering facilities like schools and churches, she said. Limiting development of hazardous areas and directing development toward urban and planned-community areas are among other goals.\
The proposed amendment to allow 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  projects outside the district requires project approval from the appropriate agency before construction.\
Eight of 
\f1\b Idaho's
\f0\b0  44 counties had wind policies as of November, an 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Business Review survey found. Two counties had biomass, nuclear, solar and geothermal policies. Three had policies for multiple types of alternative 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  projects. All others deferred to a conditional-use process. Since then, Bonneville County, in the 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  Falls area, approved a wind overlay map of zoning districts where wind turbines are allowed.\
}