{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs15\fsmilli7581 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 6| OCTOBER 3\'969, 2018 |BOISEWEEKLYBOISEWEEKLY.COM
\f1\fs17 In some ways, Boise is sitting on a clean energy gold mine. When City of Boise Public Works Director Steve Burgos and Communications Manager Colin Hickman sat down to talk with Boise Weekly about the city\'92s movement toward 100 percent clean energy, they pointed to the quirks of the local environment that give Boise an edge. \'93We can be 40 to 50 percent hydro[powered], depending on the water year,\'94 said Burgos, leaning forward at a table in his sunny City Hall office.\'93And 2 percent geothermal,\'94 Hickman added. Burgos nodded his agreement. \'93We\'92re working on a master plan to expand the geothermal system,\'94 he said. \'93How do we leverage that unique asset to Boise?\'94 While work on maximizing resources like those has been underway for years, urgency spiked a few weeks ago follow-ing a declaration from Boise Mayor Dave Bieter during his State of the City address. Speaking on stage at the Morrison Center on Sept. 12, Bieter announced that the City of Boise\'92s facilities and operations will be powered with 100 percent renewable energy by 2030.\'93A growing number of businesses want renewable energy,\'94 Bieter told the gathered crowd. \'93Consumers demand it and costs are coming down. To separate ourselves and attract the types of businesses we want, we need more clean energy. It\'92s a first step to creating a set of renewable energy goals for the entire city. It\'92s not a slogan. It\'92s our commitment to set the stage for what\'92s next.\'94For Casey Mattoon, the conservation program manager for the Idaho Chap-ter of the Sierra Club, the timing of the declaration was a surprise, even though he sits in on the city\'92s roundtable of stakeholders\'97a group of clean-energy experts, providers and consumers including representatives from Idaho Power, Intermountain Gas, Idaho Conservation League, Conservation Voters for Idaho, Micron, Simplot and more\'97for months. \'93We knew that a commitment was coming for 100 percent clean energy, we just weren\'92t sure on the timing. But we\'92re really excited it happened at the State of the City, because it was not only a huge moment for lean energy in Boise but it came in the same week that the Sierra Club released our new case studies report,\'94 Mattoon said. That report is the latest to spotlight cities that have joined the Sierra Club\'92s Ready for 100 Campaign, a push to get cities nationwide to pledge conversion to 100 percent clean energy in at least one economic sector by 2035. While the City of Boise\'92s newest goal isn\'92t enough to earn it a spot on the Sierra club\'92s list (which included 83 cities as of Sept. 27), it\'92s a big step in that direction, particularly compounded with the city\'92s other goals\'97including its 2016 commitment to halve energy use in existing city buildings by 2030. Moving forward, Burgos said the City will pursue that goal and its new 100 percent clean energy commitment concur-rently.\'93They\'92re going to work together in tandem,\'94 he said. \'93... Hopefully 15 to 20 percent of us getting [to 100 percent clean energy in city buildings and operations] will be energy efficiency, reducing what we\'92re actually using. That will also reduce the backside cost of any renewables that we have to add.\'94 To that end, the city earned a Department of Energy grant to commission an analysis of energy use in 20 of its buildings. Broken down into 15-minute intervals, that data gives the city insight into which high-energy operations can be targeted for reduction. Burgos said that since 2010, the city has managed to reduce energy use at City Hall by 50 percent, just by switching to LED lights and making behavioral changes. That study, trial-and-error and in-novation have been in pursuit of an even larger goal, which the city has coined Boise\'92s Clean Energy Future: a city-wide commitment to 100 percent clean energy. That would include not only government buildings but commercial establishments, private homes and more. Bieter\'92s announcement in September was meant, as he said, to \'93set the stage\'94 for the next step. \'93If we\'92re going to ask the community to do it, we better have figured it out internally on our own,\'94 Burgos said, explaining why he feels city buildings and employees have to achieve clean energy goals before the rest of the municipality follows suit. Public feedback will also be key. Starting this fall and continuing through winter, Public Works will engage directly with citizens to create a plan it hopes to take to Bieter and Boise City Council for approval as early as spring or summer of 2019. Whether the result will dovetail closely enough to the Sierra Club\'92s Ready for 100 Campaign to get Boise on the list of committed cities, though, remains to be seen. Burgos said he\'92s less concerned about making the environmental organization\'92s honor roll than he is about making a plan that\'92s Boise-specific.\'93They\'92re probably parallel things,\'94 he said. Hickman added, \'93We want it to be a Boise goal. Certainly it\'92s great to be part of a larger anything, but we felt really strongly that this be Boise-centered, and a plan that works for our community based on what we\'92ve heard from all the stakeholders, the public and the unique set of circumstances and opportunities that Boise has.\'94}