{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
Nov. 24--RUPERT, 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  -- Intrepid Technology and Resources Inc., an 
\f1\b Idaho
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Falls
\f0\b0 -based 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  company, said Tuesday it has completed testing on its bioreactor at the Whitesides dairy near Rupert and has begun loading animal waste from the dairy into the twin 35,000-gallon tanks. \
"After significant testing of the system using both air and water over the last several weeks, we now have this weekend pre-heated and loaded over 25,000 gallons of animal waste into the anaerobic digesters," Brad Frazee, vice president of Intrepid's bio-fuel division, said in a statement. \
"I anticipate the process will lead to gas production within the six weeks that we previously indicated as the gestation period for the bacteria to become active enough to produce commercial methane gas," he said. \
The company's statement quoted dairy co-owner Steve Whitesides: "We anticipate a smooth transition on our end to the new procedures and have installed our own gas lines to enable us to utilize some of the excess 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  from the bioreactor. \
"Obviously, there is interest within the dairy industry to more efficiently manage the animal effluent, which is a normal byproduct of a dairy operation. I believe this system will do that, but should also produce commercial 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0 ," the dairy owner said. \
Whitesides said his dairy received a call from a U.S. senator's office to schedule a demonstration of the plant next week. \
}