{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
Apr. 30--President George W. Bush's proposed federal budget would put America's alternative and 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  sectors on a diet while providing a glut of funding for fossil fuel development. \
The President's proposed budget calls for $19 billion in 2002 -- $700 million, or 3 percent below the 2001 budget -- for the Department of 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0 . \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  research and development programs would lose more than $277 million in funds. Rsearch into cleaner coal technology would gain $2 billion over 10 years. \
"Continuing and expanding programs that have been in place as the country drifted to the brink of an 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  crisis does not appear to be a wise course of action," said 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Secretary Spencer Abraham, defending the cuts. "We need a better measure of success in the 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  resource area." \

\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  efficiency programs would be cut by up to 50 percent, with one exception: the home weatherization program. That program would grow by $1.4 billion over the next 10 years under the president's proposed budget. \
The budget also sets aside $445 million to support the engineering and design of a controversial permanent nuclear waste disposal site at Yucca Mountain, Nevada. Scientific studies mandated by Congress are still under way at Yucca Mountain. The site is the only location being considered for permanent disposal of high-level nuclear waste. \
The Interior Department's proposed budget provides increased funding for 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  resource programs in the Mineral Management Service and the Bureau of Land Management, which would support Bush administration proposals to expand oil and natural gas exploration on public lands. \
"
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  production is an important part of the BLM's multiple use mandate, and we have great expertise to help support the expanding 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  needs of our nation," said BLM acting director Nina Hatfield. \
In order to support ongoing national assessments of coal, oil and natural gas as well as other 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  and mineral commodities by the U.S. Geological Survey, the budget would reduce funding for two USGS water quality programs. The National Water Quality Assessment Program and the Toxic Substances Hydrology Program, which provide data for state and federal regulatory agencies such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, would lose $30 million in funding. \
Funding for nuclear power expansion would increase, while funds for cleanups at existing nuclear sites would be slashed. Meanwhile, hydropower research and technology funding will be cut in half to $2.5 million. \
Biomass technology programs would be cut by 6.7 percent from $86.3 million this year to $80.5 million in fiscal year 2002. Research funds for solar power would be cut by 37 percent, from $277.3 million to $174.2 million. \
Climate change research would by cut in several areas. The U.S. Global Change Research Program budget would be reduced by $200,000. The EPA's climate research programs and industry incentive programs for reducing emissions and boosting 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  efficiency would be cut by about $528,000. \
Research into carbon sequestration, or storing carbon in vegetation, oceans and other forms, would climb by 10 percent, from $18.7 million this year to $20.7 million in fiscal year 2002. \
Critics say the White House budget's increased emphasis on fossil fuels, including oil, natural gas and so-called clean coal technologies, could undermine years of progress in reducing emissions of pollutants, including acid rain-producing sulfur, toxic mercury and climate warming greenhouse gases. \
"President Bush's budget is a blueprint for increasing global warming, offering backward-looking solutions at a time when Americans want to look forward toward a sustainable 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  future," said Jennifer Morgan, director of the World Wildlife Fund's climate change campaign. "Saying we can have 'clean coal' is like saying we can have healthy cigarettes. Heavy carbon fuels like coal are the biggest contributors to global warming, and we must instead invest in advanced clean 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  technologies and sources." \
}