{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Jul. 6--GREEN-POWER LEADER: The City Council of Oakland, California, voted unanimously late last month to have all of its municipal facilities powered solely by electricity from 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  sources. Oakland will buy roughly 9 megawatts of electrical power -- enough to power 27,000 homes -- for its city hall, administration buildings and street and traffic lights. Oakland's commitment to electricity from 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  sources makes it the world's largest municipal green power purchaser. "The City of Oakland has raised the standard for other local governments," said Kari Smith, director of the Clean Power Education Campaign for the Center for 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Efficiency and 
\f1\b Renewable
\f0\b0  Technologies. "If all goes according to plan, Oakland will be receiving 20 percent of its electricity from new 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  generators by 2004." See the city's news release, City Council Votes To Make Oakland World's Largest Green Power City, for more information details. 
\f1\b RENEWABLE
\f0\b0  AUSSIES: Australians looking for information about 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  in their country now have a new resource. The Australian Greenhouse Office, a federal agency, recently launched the Australian 
\f1\b Renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  web site. It provides an overview of solar, wind, wave, biomass and hydro 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  use "down under." The site also includes specific information about Australia's own 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  use, details on how to implement these technologies in the home, a searchable database of companies in the Australian 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  industry and the latest information on Australian government initiatives. PRIUS FOR SALE: Toyota, last week, started selling the Prius, its new hybrid electric car. The four-door, five-passenger sedan runs on a 1.5-liter, 4-cylinder engine teamed with a 33-kilowatt motor. It gets about 52 miles per gallon in the city and 45 miles per gallon on the highway. The manufacturer's suggested retail price is $20,450. Toyota is adding a special eight-year, 100,000-mile warranty on all hybrid-electric components. Interested buyers must use the web site to place an order as the car is not currently for sale at Toyota dealerships. FATAL FUNGI: The Ukrainian Health Ministry said Wednesday that at least 112 Ukrainians, including 33 children, have died this year from mushroom poisoning, according to an Associated Press report. Some poisoning cases involve poisonous mushrooms mistaken for edible ones, while some of the victims appear to have gathered edible mushrooms in badly polluted areas. While the state health authorities regularly warn citizens of the dangers, mushroom collecting is a popular national pastime in summer and fall, and is for many poor Ukrainians an important means for supplementing food supplies. Seventy-four people died from mushroom poisoning in 1998 and there were 42 fatalities in 1999. MARS MOVIE: Mars passed less than one degree from the 
\f1\b sun
\f0\b0  on July 1, but the 
\f1\b sun
\f0\b0 's glare prevented earthlings from watching the show. However, coronographs on the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory captured the sequence. A movie of the spectacle is posted on the web. The animation shows three coronal mass ejections. Although Mars appears close to the 
\f1\b sun
\f0\b0  in the sky, it was 149 million miles from the 
\f1\b sun
\f0\b0  and 243 million miles from Earth when the images were recorded.}