{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Jul. 10--The future of the national parks in the Southeast United States is looking better and brighter -- at least from the perspective of 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  efficiency and sustainable 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  technologies. Jim Powell, director of the U.S Department of 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Atlanta Regional Office, and Jerry Belson, director of the National Park Service's Southeastern Regional Office, signed a formal agreement June 29 under which the two entities will work together to provide 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  efficient and 
\f1\b renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  technologies for park facilities in the Southeast. The signature ceremony took place at Great Smoky Mountains National Park. The pact endorsed last week specifically identifies how the two regional offices will work to meet the goals of the national Green 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Parks Initiative. The Green 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Parks is a joint program between the DOE and the U.S. Department of Interior that seeks to implement 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  efficiency projects in parks across the country and to teach the public about sustainable 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  technologies. The Green 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Parks initiative went into effect in April 1999. "(The southeast regional agreement) is an opportunity to cut operational costs for the National Park Service in the Southeast Region as well as to educate the public on the importance of 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  conservation and efficiency," said Paul Winegar, spokesperson for the NPS's office in Atlanta. "We are technically the first region to forge a formal agreement on a regional basis between the Department of 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  and the park service," said Joe Martin, the leader of the project for the NPS Southeast Region. A similar but much larger alliance was formed in the Pacific Northwest, he pointed out, that included several agencies including the DOE, the NPS and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to name just a few. The southeastern effort is smaller and more focused, and "we are well-matched between offices," said Martin. \
There is a lot of enthusiasm about the project among NPS employees, said Christine McKay, program manager for the Federal 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Management Program in the Atlanta Regional Office and DOE counterpart to Martin. Her job is to provide technical assistance for NPS employees in the Southeast who offer ideas for 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  efficiency and sustainability in the parks. "People in the park service are so excited," she said. "Everyone recognizes that 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  efficiency is a problem that must be addressed. I see the NPS pioneering projects, which they will then showcase and interpret for the public, who will take it and apply it at home. This is very 'apple pie,' so American!" \
Several projects are already under way or in the works per the agreement between the southeast offices of the DOE and NPS: The two groups are collaborating to find sustainable technologies that will better preserve historic documents and artifacts at park facilities in the generally humid southeastern region. Researchers from DOE's Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee will perform detailed analyses to determine the most 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0 -efficient, most cost-effective technologies that will provide stable humidity and air temperatures. "This information will be shared with National Park Service staff across the nation, as well as the entire museum community," said Powell at the signing ceremony. NPS Southeastern Regional Office is participating in the DOE's SAVEnergy audit program, which provides building 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  audits to federal agencies throughout the United States. Several parks in the Southeast Region, starting with San Juan National Historic Site in Puerto Rico, will receive 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  efficiency audits of their buildings. "We are going to do a systematic inventory of the parks to capture the existing conditions for 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  use," said McKay. \
After these audits are completed, the DOE Atlanta office will assist the parks in obtaining financing to implement the recommended 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  efficiency improvements. Under the Green 
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Parks Initiative, the DOE allocated $400,000 to pay for alternatively fueled vehicles used in national parks. The National Park Service in the Southeast is already working with Georgia Power Company in a demonstration program to provide electric trucks to park maintenance crews in several southeastern parks, including the Andersonville and Jimmy Carter national historic sites. Electric trucks reduce overall fuel consumption in the parks, and at Cumberland Island National Seashore it will also reduce the need to ship fuel to the island for gas-powered vehicles and lower the potential for petroleum spills en route. Additionally, a small electric tram will soon be available on Cumberland to transport visitors to various locations on the island. Solar power is being implemented in isolated park locations to take the place of diesel generator and pump systems. A new solar hot water system is planned for a public bathhouse at Sea Camp campground on Cumberland Island. This technology will also be implemented at a remote public restroom in the Everglades and is currently in use at a park ranger residence on a Mississippi island that is part of the Gulf Islands National Seashore. The National Park Service Southeast Region includes parks in South Carolina, North Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Tennessee, Kentucky, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.\
}