{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Jun. 29--SOLAR ON SITE: Interested in encouraging solar 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  in your community? Visit the GoingSolar web site. Sponsored by the Interstate 
\f1\b Renewable
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Energy
\f0\b0  Council, GoingSolar offers information kits including videos, public service announcements, fact sheets, brochures, photos, posters and details about solar communities across the United States. Community representatives can also sign up to be on the GoingSolar e-mail list to exchange information. WATER WOES: An assessment in 1998 of a third of the nation's waterways shows that 40 percent remain too polluted for fishing and swimming, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said Wednesday. This percentage is generally consistent with findings of the past decade. Runoff from agricultural lands and urban areas remains the primary source of the leading culprits: silt, bacteria, phosphorus, nitrogen and metals. More than 290,000 miles of 840,000 miles of assessed rivers and streams do not meet water-quality standards, and about half of all lakes and reservoirs register nearly 50 percent pollution. Water in the Great Lakes is especially suspect. Groundwater quality generally remains good and can support many uses. CHEVRON STALLED: The Department of Commerce said Tuesday it will wait for two documents, expected by September 2000, before it acts on a request by Chevron to drill for natural gas offshore Pensacola, Florida, in the Gulf of Mexico. One report is a biological opinion identifying potential effects of the project on endangered or threatened species. The other is a final environmental impact statement prepared by the Department of the Interior. The latter will clarify whether the project should implement any of the environmental mitigation measures proposed in an earlier draft. The appeal, lodged under the Coastal Zone Management Act, stems from concerns raised by the state of Florida over Chevron's proposal. FOUND FLORA: New species of flora are discovered all the time -- and in unusual places. In 1992, botanists Dean Taylor and Glen Clifton found a new species of neviusia (a primitive rose) clinging to a cliff along Highway 299 in Shasta County, California. In 1996, Taylor discovered the Yosemite fawn lily, also along a highway. Due to a complex mix of soils, climate, rocks and terrain, California is a botanical hot spot, said Jim Shevock of the National Park Service. Shevock and Taylor agree that about 10 new plant species are discovered every year in California. Shevock himself has discovered more than 20 new plants in California. This trend dates back to the Gold Rush in the late 1840s. Many of the new discoveries will be listed as endangered species. GONE WITH THE WIND: Northern States Power Company of Minnesota has issued a call for proposals to develop 80 megawatts of new wind-generated electricity. The company plans to install the new wind capacity -- enough to power 20,000 households -- by the end of 2002. The installation will complete NSP's commitment to install 425 megawatts of wind 
\f1\b energy
\f0\b0  by 2002. }